---
title: "Proclaiming Your Might to Another Generation"
week: 20
---

**Proclaiming Your Might to Another Generation**

*My mouth will tell of your righteous acts,*

*of your deeds of salvation all the day,*

*for their number is past my knowledge.*

*With the mighty deeds of the Lord GOD I will come;*

*I will remind them of your righteousness, yours alone.*

*O God, from my youth you have taught me,*

*and I still proclaim your wondrous deeds.*

*So even to old age and gray hairs,*

*O God, do not forsake me,*

*until I proclaim your might to another generation,*

*your power to all those to come.*

(Psalm 71:15-18, ESV)

**M**y late father, when in his late-90s, could still remember where he
was and what he was doing when, in 1941, the announcement came of the
attack on Pearl Harbor, triggering the official entry of the United
States into the Second World War. He was 20 years old, playing
basketball with some friends when he heard the news over the radio.
Within a few months he was in the army air corps, training to serve as a
communications officer at an airbase in England. Though he did not talk
about it much for many years, eventually he shared stories of his
experiences during the war, helping me understand and appreciate far
more than what a simple summary of facts from a history textbook could
provide. It was his lived experience, and I treasure those times when he
shared with me how the war changed his life.

That simple experience helps me better understand that leading others in
a study of the Bible needs to be much more than a recitation of facts
from Scripture. It should be a personal investment in proclaiming God’s
righteousness and His mighty “deeds of salvation” to others. The
psalmist knows that many of his hearers were not present when he saw God
perform certain “mighty deeds”, or what he heard from the previous
generation. The younger generation doesn’t know what happened in the
past, or how significant it was in the lives of God’s people then. It is
up to those who were present to share with the next generation what God
has done and what it reveals about His character (righteous) and
strength (mighty).

This kind of teaching carries a deeply personal aspect. The psalmist
said, *From my youth you have taught me, and I still proclaim your
wondrous deeds.”* This is more than simply passing on historical
facts—it is sharing how God has worked in, and impacted him. As you lead
your study group, are you excited to help them know about God’s
“wondrous deeds” in the Scripture’s salvation story? Are you also
sharing with them God’s work in your own life, His mighty deeds that
have impacted you personally? Our personal testimony to the ongoing
power of God to save can have a deep influence, pointing people to the
mighty God who is still at work in the lives of His people today.

As I grow older, I more and more appreciate the last part of this
passage: *“So even to old age and gray hairs, O God, do not forsake me,
until I proclaim your might to another generation, your power to all
those to come.”* I have an older friend who has served in ministry roles
his entire adult life. Though he retired many years ago, at age 80
started teaching a men’s Bible study at his church. He is now 86 and
still going strong. He desires to help men know more fully and
personally the mighty God who acts to save and who is present to guide
and transform them. He wants them to know God’s righteous character and
saving grace. His teaching isn’t just a review of facts from the Bible,
as important as that is. He is able to share a lifetime of seeing God at
work, encouraging the men in his group to see God’s might and power
today.

How about you? As you teach, do you share about God’s mighty deeds in
your own life? Are you passing on stories of God’s power, His righteous
acts, both from Scripture and from the lives of God’s people in recent
times? Both kinds of stories are important, encouraging hope that the
God of the Bible still has power to save today.

> *Father, you have done so much, both in Scripture and in my own life,
> that I want to share with others, so that they will know You are
> mighty to save. As I lead my study group, help us to see You in all
> your righteousness and to appreciate Your great love for us that moved
> You to do mighty and wondrous deeds to save us. Help me to share Your
> work in my own life, encouraging those I teach to trust in Your power
> and love today in Christ Jesus. Amen.*
