---
title: "DEVOTIONAL 21"
---
# DEVOTIONAL 21

**Becoming Like Our Master and Teacher**

> *“A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his master.
> It is enough for the disciple to be like his teacher, and the servant
> like his master. If they have called the master of the house
> Beelzebul, how much more will they malign those of his household.”*
> (Matthew 10:24-25, ESV)

**S**everal years ago, I traveled to the Middle East and spent some time
in Jordan, the West Bank of Israel, and Lebanon, visiting and speaking
at a few seminaries. It was my first time in these settings, and there
was much for me to learn. I have lived most of my life in the USA and
have enjoyed support for my involvement in ministry in churches, even
from those who do not profess to be Christians. Being on pastoral staff
is seen as a good thing, or at least not a bad thing. Being a professor
at a seminary arouses no animosity from anyone, sometimes just
curiosity. However, there are some settings in the Middle East, and
other parts of the world, where being a teacher of the gospel may stir
up a negative reaction, even persecution. I met several Muslim-born
believers who were studying to become ministry leaders and heard their
own stories of negative reactions and persecution.

In this chapter of the Gospel of Matthew, Jesus sends out the twelve
disciples to proclaim the Kingdom of God, heal the sick, and carry out
other demonstrations of the power of the Kingdom. In sending them out,
Jesus also warns them that they may not always be well received. They
may be taken to court, flogged, and delivered to the civil authorities
for punishment. Jesus says that they will be hated by all for His name’s
sake—not a very encouraging forecast of what is to come!

As Jesus draws this discussion to a close, He offers this observation:
“A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his master. It
is good enough for the disciple to be like his teacher, and the servant
like his master.” Now, by itself, this seems like a harmless enough
observation. It makes sense that disciples or students should strive to
learn and grow to be like their teachers, at least in ways that
demonstrate they have learned what they ought to learn. I can even see
how this relates to the goals of our teaching in the church. With Jesus
as our teacher, we are seeking to grow to be like Him, to be transformed
into the character of Christ as God works within us. This is a great
goal, and I wish this is what the passage is about, but I’m afraid it is
something much more challenging.

Many of my brothers and sisters in some parts of the world understand
better than I do Jesus’ last statement in this passage: “If they have
called the master of the house Beelzebul, how much more will they malign
those of his household.” If Jesus was persecuted, and hated by some to
the point that they identified Him with Satan and sought His death, we
should not be surprised if we arouse a similar response when we teach
and preach the same gospel of the Kingdom. Some of our brothers and
sisters have experienced this and know, that in this way, they are like
their teacher and master – they have received the same kind of
persecution Jesus experienced. For those of us who have not yet
experienced that kind of persecution, we must remind ourselves it is an
inherent risk of following Christ and teaching in His name.

In my own context there are tectonic shifts taking place within our
culture, and resistance is growing to some of the basic social teachings
of the Christian faith. It appears that identifying as a Christian and a
teacher of the Bible will increasingly be seen in a negative light. Many
of these shifts are happening in areas related to sexual morality and
pro-life/abortion issues, with Christians being perceived as intolerant
of others, forcing their religion and its moral code on others, and
creating an environment of hate for those who differ from them. We must
take these perceptions seriously and demonstrate love, care, and respect
for others, even as we disagree with them (see 2 Timothy 2:24-26 for
Paul’s exhortation on this). We also must recognize this can be part of
the cost of following Christ, and we need God’s guidance, grace, and
strength to continue teaching the gospel in difficult circumstances.

You are not alone in being a teacher of the Bible. You have many
brothers and sisters who share your calling to teach, your passion, and
your desire to do this well. Would you please pray for those who do so
in the face of persecution, that God would protect them, and give them
the words they need to respond when challenged? Pray that God would be
present in ways that give them courage and strength. Pray also that God
would make you wise and gracious in your responses to those who object
to what the Bible teaches. Being like Jesus is not always easy, and we
need His transforming work within us to rise to the challenges we will
face!

> *Father, please give me courage and strength to teach your Word in
> settings where it is not always welcomed and may cause others to turn
> against me. Please strengthen and encourage my brothers and sisters
> who teach the Bible in spite of persecution. May they know your
> comforting presence, and your protection. Help us all to be like Jesus
> in His commitment to obey you, no matter the cost. Thank you for the
> grace you give for every difficult situation. Amen.*
