---
title: "DEVOTIONAL 40"
week: 40
---

**The Beginning of Wisdom**

*Hear, O sons, a father’s instruction,*

*and be attentive, that you may gain insight,*

*for I give you good precepts;*

*do not forsake my teaching.*

*When I was a son with my father,*

*tender, the only one in the sight of my mother,*

*he taught me and said to me,*

*“Let your heart hold fast my words;*

*keep my commandments, and live.*

*Get wisdom; get insight;*

*do not forget, and do not turn away from the words of my mouth.*

*Do not forsake her, and she will keep you;*

*love her, and she will guard you.*

*The beginning of wisdom is this: Get wisdom,*

*and whatever you get, get insight.*

*Prize her highly, and she will exalt you;*

*she will honor you if you embrace her.*

*She will place on your head a graceful garland;*

*she will bestow on you a beautiful crown.”*

*Hear, my son, and accept my words,*

*that the years of your life may be many.*

*I have taught you the way of wisdom;*

*I have led you in the paths of uprightness.*

*When you walk, your step will not be hampered,*

*and if you run, you will not stumble.*

*Keep hold of instruction; do not let go;*

*guard her, for she is your life.*

(Proverbs 4:1-13, ESV)

**W**hat is the goal of your teaching and learning? Many passages of
Scripture highlight different types of desired outcomes, encouraging us
to think broadly and deeply about this. On the one hand, put simply, the
goal of my teaching is that those I teach would learn – but what are
they to learn? Is it enough that they learn the information I desire
them to know? Is it enough that they understand ways this knowledge can
be useful? While both are important steps along the way, the real goal
in leading a Bible study group is something far more important and
deeply needed – *wisdom*.

Scripture repeatedly emphasizes the value and earnest pursuit of wisdom,
particularly here in the book of Proverbs. “The beginning of wisdom is
this: Get wisdom, and whatever you get, get insight.” But what is
wisdom, and how does it compare with knowledge? Knowledge is information
gained, but in itself gives no guidance in how that information should
be used. It has no ethical component – no “ought” to it. This is quite
different from wisdom. In essence, wisdom is the ability to exercise
sound judgment, to discern what is true, right, and good in a given
situation, and to act accordingly. It requires the ability to evaluate
information, identify that which is good, and then determine how best to
pursue it.

In the field of education there is much discussion of the importance for
students to develop critical thinking skills. These skills are, indeed,
important to help people evaluate what they hear and read, to test it to
see if what they are told is true or not, whether the arguments are
sound or misleading, and if the conclusions are valid or false. In an
era of “fake news,” this is a critical skill. But, as important as the
development of critical thinking skills is, it still falls short of the
biblical understanding of wisdom. Wisdom builds upon critical thinking
and adds the aspect of moral judgment, seeking to see the world from
God’s perspective and to pursue what God judges as both true and good.
Scripture shows us that intelligence, knowledge, and critical thinking
in pursuit of the wrong goals is not wisdom, but wickedness—the
comparison often being made between the “righteous” person and the
“wicked” person. Growing in wisdom is the pathway to becoming a
righteous person. We are to pursue righteousness, even as we recognize
our inability to attain it on our own. No one but God is fully
righteous, yet we are called to imitate Him, and through faith in Christ
we receive forgiveness and grace from God for our failings and
disobedience.

Wisdom enables a person to live a good life, one worthy of praise.
“Prize her highly, and she will exalt you; she will honor you if you
embrace her. She will place on your head a graceful garland; she will
bestow on you a beautiful crown.” In addition, wisdom enables the person
who possesses it to avoid fruitless or harmful pursuits, escaping the
bad results that would have come from them. “When you walk, your step
will not be hampered, and if you run, you will not stumble.” So
important is the gaining of wisdom that the end of this passage tells
us, “Keep hold of instruction; do not let go; guard her, for she is your
life.”

It’s easy to forget this bigger picture and long-term goal of our
learning and teaching. Ask God to help you maintain this focus, and in
light of this goal, to develop your teaching in ways that help those you
lead in Bible study to gain greater wisdom, not simply greater
knowledge.

> *Father, thank you for your desire that I would grow to be more like
> you in my character and for the gift of your Word and your Holy Spirit
> to help bring that about. Give me increasing wisdom and discernment so
> that as I grow to know your Word and yourself more fully, I also grow
> in insight as to how to live a life that honors and glorifies you, and
> reveals your renovating work in my heart that impacts my actions. I
> desire that my life would show both your grace of forgiveness and your
> power of transformation. Teach me your wisdom, I pray. Amen.*
