---
title: "DEVOTIONAL 34"
---
#DEVOTIONAL 34

**The Mark of Discipleship**

> *“A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another: just as
> I have loved you, you also are to love one another. By this all people
> will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one
> another.”* (John 13:34-35, ESV)

**T**oday’s passage is very short, and I’d like you to pause and read it
through several times, slowly. This comes at the end of Jesus’ teaching
ministry. He has just celebrated the Passover with His disciples in the
upper room and He has given them symbols of a new covenant that God is
making with His people. Christ’s body will be given for them, and His
blood will be shed for them, but they do not understand it all yet. As
Jesus draws His teaching to a close, He focuses in on a critical issue.
What will mark those who are His followers? What is to distinguish His
disciples in the eyes of the world? Jesus’ simple response is, their
love for one another, modeled on Jesus’ own love for them.

Consider for a moment what is about to happen. Jesus knows He is going
to be arrested, tried, and crucified. His disciples are about to lose
their Master, and He is the only thing that holds them all together.
Sure, a few of the disciples are brothers, some share a common trade
(fishing), but there is nothing else that binds them all together, other
than their common commitment to Jesus. I can imagine the tensions that
arose at times between Simon the Zealot, who sought to end Roman rule
over Israel, and Matthew the tax collector, a collaborator with the
Romans. With Jesus gone it would be easy for this group to split into
rival factions, fall apart, and lose their impact as Christ’s disciples.
Jesus knows the dangers, and He gives them this new commandment to love
one another. This love is to be deeply sacrificial, steadfast, and
unshakable, like the love Jesus has shown them.

Those of us who lead Bible studies are called to be Christ’s disciples
first, then to teach others. Our own discipleship is foundational, it
matters to God more than what tasks we take on in His name. If this is
true (and I believe deeply it is), then we must allow Jesus, through
this passage, to examine our hearts and our actions to see where we are
loving well and where we are not. We may be smart. We may know a lot
about the Bible. We may be good at leading group discussions. We may be
witty and help people feel comfortable in our groups. We may practice
spiritual disciplines well and offer impressive prayers in public. None
of these, as useful as they may be, marks us as Christ’s disciples.
According to Jesus, only love does. And it is not just fondness, or
affection, or “liking” that Jesus is talking about. It is the kind of
“steadfast love” that God showed His people in the Old Testament, and
Jesus demonstrates with His disciples when they run away at His arrest.
His doesn’t stop loving them when they are afraid or disobey. This
quality of love for our brothers and sisters in Christ marks us as His
disciples.

In *The Church at the End of the 20th Century* (IVP, 1970), Francis
Schaeffer wrote an appendix on “The Mark of the Christian,” focusing on
this passage and on John 17. He notes that Jesus’ statement here is not
a fact, but a command with a condition. *If* we love one another, *then*
people will know we are His disciples. As Schaeffer points out, this
love is what is to distinguish us as people who follow Christ. The love
that we have received from Him changes us, enabling us to love others.
And when people see that difference, they will know we are Jesus’
disciples.

I want to be a faithful disciple of Jesus Christ, and I want people to
see the difference Jesus has made in me. Ultimately, this will not be
revealed by my Bible knowledge (as important as that is for teaching
others), discussion leadership skills (as helpful as those are to
facilitate group learning), or faithfulness to spiritual disciplines (as
beneficial as they may be to help me be attuned to God’s work in my
life). It is the fruit of God’s work in my heart, stirring me to love as
He has loved me. Love is the mark I am to bear.

How about you? When people see you, over time, do they know that you are
a disciple of Jesus because they see a quality of love in you that has
no other explanation? Has Christ’s love so impacted you that others see
it as you interact with your brothers and sisters in Christ? Where you
have seen that kind of transformation by God in your life, give thanks
to Him. Where you are struggling to love well, seek God’s help to
remember Christ’s own love for you, that though you were in rebellion
against Him, He still loved you and gave His life for you. I hope you
will grow to be a great Bible study leader, but even more, I pray you
will bear the mark of the Christian as one who loves as Jesus loves.

> *Father, You have loved me so well, so faithfully, so deeply. Thank
> You for sending Christ to die for me so that I might be forgiven my
> sin and restored to right relationship with You. Thank you for loving
> me each day, particularly in those times when there is nothing lovable
> about me. Please transform my heart by Your love so that I am better
> able to love Your people, my brothers and sisters in Christ. May this
> be the mark You make in my life, and may others know that I am Jesus’
> disciple because of this transformed love. Amen.*
